This is Jocko podcast number 366 with Echo Charles and me jockel willing good evening. I go good evening
Also joining us tonight Dave Burke. Good evening Dave. Good evening Dave happens to be kind of in San Diego right now
So here you are
Leadership strategy and tactics wrote a book called leadership strategy and tactics and in that book
I talked about whether leaders are born or made and
the answer is of course both
People are born with certain characteristics that are beneficial for leadership, right?
The ability to simplify things the ability to detach
Being articulate these are all things that you can be born with various levels of and
Thankfully, they're all things that you can
improve
Right, you can learn to simplify things
You can learn to detach you can learn to become more articulate. Well, it's not easy and
Some people can learn more easily how to simplify things some people can learn more easily how to detach
Some people have a really hard time with it
There's some things that you can't improve
Right, I know in the book
I use the example of being able to speak loudly because being able to speak loudly in
In combat is beneficial and even even if you're trying to get you know, you're
You've got an event going on and you got to get everyone to move through different room
It's it's good to have a loud voice and a loud voice is a genetic thing and sure you could train it a little bit
But you some people can only talk so loud
Genetic in my family is loud at my house bunch of loud people
So it's genetic trait. So
Everyone's got some level of
inherent
Leadership capability and when you have some kind of a lack like if you don't have a loud voice cool
You get someone on your team that does
And there are some natural leaders out there, right?
And the I don't know how look natural leadership means that they might have
Some better characteristics, but what it really means is that they're humble and throughout their lives
They've developed themselves over time, right?
Some people
have
Very little leadership natural ability and then you have everyone in between
I mean, there's there's some people that they just don't they just got they didn't get the the positive leadership
Characteristics and they might be really awesome at other things
Right, they might be a great athlete, right? How many great athletes are there that weren't great coaches? There's a lot of them
So in fact some of them are actually bad coaches. They were great player, but they're a bad coach. They've great skills
Athletic skills great ability to have great peripheral vision. They have great skills for athletics, but they didn't have a great leadership
Capability and maybe they never developed it
Imagine if you're like the best ball player you can end up with a pretty big ego
Maybe you don't need to listen to a bunch of people so maybe you don't end up being the best leader
but
Leadership is what drives the success of an organization?
So the question is how do you develop leaders and we know we talk about all the time we do it Dave
And I do it for a living we develop leaders we teach leaders we train them mentor them
We put them in leadership positions put people in leadership positions. We coach them
We have developed those programs inside of organizations all very hands-on
So how do you train leaders if you're in an organization that has hundreds of thousands of people?
Obviously you're gonna use decentralized command right?
Because you as the leader in charge of a couple hundred thousand people you're not gonna be able to train everyone yourself
So you have to use decentralized command
So that the training and the mentoring and the coaching is going to take place at at the subordinate levels
But then if you have a few hundred thousand people in your organization, how do you set a baseline of knowledge?
That's gonna drive the leadership
Training and drive a leadership culture inside your organization. Well a couple months ago Dave handed me a manual
And the manual is called it's from the Marine Corps. I know it's a big shocker coming from Dave Burke handed me a manual
It's called the fundamentals of Marine Corps leadership and
For all practical purposes, it's a correspondence course, which is kind of a joke in the military, right in the military
It's like oh you went to Bud's through the correspondence course meaning you just you know filled out some paperwork and then you graduated or you went to flight school
Would you do correspondence course to get through this?
But correspondence course
It's a real thing. It's something that is necessary
You have to be able to educate people remotely and now it's a lot easier to do that, right?
Because now we have online training and everyone does online training it's advanced a lot
We have the we have the extreme ownership academy
And we've got a whole new platform rolling out with that. What date does that come out? What dates a new platform January 1?
Oh my goodness happening. Oh, so this will be live
so we have a new platform with that and
And even you know when when laif and I first started talking about having an online training platform
Both of us I think laif more so because I'd seen some other
Possibilities laif was just thinking about what we had you know in the in the in the navy these online trainings that you had to take
They were super boring
Super not user friendly and it didn't seem like a viable option
Of course
Covid hit and all of a sudden everyone's online everyone understood the benefits
And so luckily we had kind of started the academy now and then we went hard on it now
We've got an outstanding product the new the new one that's all outstanding. Yeah, it's awesome. I was pretty impressed
I was extremely I could actually I couldn't have been more impressed
So we've got the extreme ownership academy
Um, but before that was available things like this manual were out and the manuals dated October
Of 2000 so there wasn't really a big online training capability
And also this is
Something to think about this before the war kicked off
So there's sometimes as I read through this manual that I was like
We've been we've been at peace for a while haven't we?
Because war teaches and reteaches lessons unlike any other instructor
And you'll see some of those so
Anyways, but that being said there's a bunch of good lessons and reminders about leadership
And I want to talk through some of those today
and also put this up as kind of an example of the type of
The type of program you can put in place if you're running a large organization or if you're running a small organization
How often do we talk to clients that have?
40 people but they got a decent churn rate a little higher than they want
They got new people checking in all the time or like you get a
Medical staff let's say medical staff you got professionals, but they might work with a different team for three days
And then not see that team again
There's certain environments where you're going to have a rapid turnover
So it's nice to realize that you can set up a standard operating procedure that you can give people some level of baseline
knowledge very quickly
And and you could move forward as a unified team if you have a good plan around it
And this is sort of an example that so
I also really appreciate the Marine Corps
Because they they have a an ability to
Speak to their audience in a way that can be pretty transformational
So
Young marine stopped by the gym today just out of boot camp
You know and you you're looking at him. Yep 100%
You know as soon as I saw him I was like, yep, this guy this kid just graduated from Marine Corps boot camp
You know he's standing at attention waiting to talk to me. I'm like check
He's like, you know, good afternoon, sir. Yep
Good afternoon
When did you graduate from boot camp four days ago outstanding, you know
So the Marine Corps gets that job done. So
Let's go to this book the fundamentals of Marine Corps leadership
It starts off by saying congratulations, which is a really like again, they're getting in your brain right away
Congratulations on your enrollment in a distance education course from the distance learning and technology
Technologies department of the Marine Corps students since 1920 heritage
Heritage since 1920 the Marine Corps Institute has been helping tens of thousands of hard charging Marines
What kind of marine art? I'm a hard charger. You got this, but you're already hard charging
You're already in the game like you
In to improve their technical job performance skills through distance learning by enrolling in this course
You have shown a desire to improve the skills you have and master
master new skills to enhance your job performance
So you can see how they're coming out of the gate
And then it says your personal characteristics. This isn't a question by the way
It's not a survey about your personal characteristics
It's saying your personal characteristics. You are properly motivated
You have made a positive decision to get training on your own self motivation is perhaps the most important force in learning or
Achieving anything doing whatever is necessary to learn is motivation. You have it
This is outstanding
You seek to improve yourself you are enrolled to improve those skills
You already possess possess and learn new skills when you improve yourself you improve the core
Listen you
Corporal Lance corporal
Shmucka telly you are helping the entire marine corps right now by reading this book by going through these procedures
And we thank you for it. You have the initiative to act of course marine corps always trying to get you to take initiative
By acting on your own you have shown you are self self-starter willing to reach out for opportunities to learn and grow
You accept challenges
This is like the affirmations that people say but they're saying it to you
You have self-confidence and believe in your ability and by the way, it's all true like these are all factual things
You have the self-confidence and believe in your ability to acquire
Acquired knowledge and skills you have self-confidence to set goals and the ability to achieve them enabling you to meet every challenge
You are able to set and accomplish practical goals
You are willing to commit time effort and the resources necessary to set and accomplish your goals
These professional traits will help you successfully complete this long-distance learning course
And then it goes on
I could read the entire thing and just you know, we could just sell a uh, what's an audiobook right?
Just get fired up
But then it talks about how to begin the course and it tells you how to do it
It's like a leaf through the text and do an assessment of the different phases
And then study the first unit it tells you how to study because you know look a lot of these kids
They you know, you know, if you're unless in the Marine Corps you may or may not have paid attention to one class in your entire high school, right?
And then you're preparing for the final exam and it tells you gives you these unused unused minutes
Apply what you have learned use the shakedown cruise technique
Ask another marine to lend a hand by asking questions about the course choose a particular study unit and let your buddy fire away
This technique can be interesting and challenging for both of you
just give you
If you followed what the Marine Corps told you to do you'd be an outstanding marine
The sooner you complete your course the sooner you can better yourself by applying what you learned
However, you have two years from the date of enrollment to complete this course. I hope it doesn't take so many two years to complete this
graduating
As a graduate of this distance education course and as a dedicated marine your job performance skills will improve benefiting you your unit and the
Marine Corps Semper Fidelis
So that's the intro they're coming out of the gate hard. They're getting right in your head like 18 year old jocco
I'm ready to rock and I'm ready to do some correspondence courses, bro
Now here's the thing. This is what you got to watch out for. How does this sound?
It depends on who
Is reading it right so you could look at this thing
If you got a did you have a have like a slang term for Marines that were just they didn't want to be there
Yeah, I'm thinking like strap hangers and some other terms and there's probably some more derogatory ones that I'm I'm
I'm blanking on right now, but yes, there were definitely terms. I just can't think of it. Yeah, just somebody with like a negative mindset. Yeah, yeah, yeah
Yes, you could take uh, you know the last podcast that we did we talked about building a palace or building a lean to
You could read this and be like do this is such a load of shit
You could totally do that. I could do it right now. We could go back through this thing. I could laugh at it, right? It could be like, uh
Congratulations on your enrollment in distance education course
Since 1920 the Marine Corps Institute has helped tens of thousands of hard charging. You know what I mean? Like you can see you see what I'm doing
totally
Yeah
And Jamie got a client from an email the other day and she was mad about it
And I was like
Because she doesn't have a there's like a little a little issue with the client and she's working through it
And I'm like um, so she read me the email. She's like, can you help me with this email bad?
And so she she read it to me and the tone that she read it was like super negative and I go
I go cool. I go read that again and pretend that I'm that it's an email from me
And she just went quiet
Because what the email said was like hey, we want to adjust some dates on this thing
But it was like the way she read was like hey, we need to adjust the dates. I was like, well
Oh girl
So you got to kind of
You you're gonna you're gonna read it the way you want to hear it
So why not build a palace instead of a lean to why not turn this thing into something awesome?
That's my recommendation
Uh
So lesson one and the way this thing's laid out is it's like got the lesson playing got the learning objectives
It's like sort of normal military
stuff um, it starts off placement and purpose of the marine
NCO in the chain of command the chain of command is the system the Marine Corps uses to to ensure that each
Marine receives instructions for a particular task from only one supervisor each immediate supervisor in turn receives
Instruction from his or her immediate supervisor. This process continues up to the commandant to the Marine Corps
In this way each supervisor is a link in the chain of command from the commandant to each Marine Corps
And from the commandant to each Marine
That's a that's like a
Hey, they might as well put the president in there that the president of the United States is in there too
They should throw them in there except for the fact that they're look, you don't really care
Hey, man, I work for the commandant never mind anybody else, but I work for the command out of the Marine Corps. That's where I'm at
Um, this chain serves two purposes the first of these purposes to decentralize authority
Since it is impossible for one person to assign duties to every marine or to supervise every task personally
Assignments are passed down through the levels of command. This is called decentralization of authority
for example
The mess officer tells the chief cook what foods to prepare for a meal the chief cook then tells the section cook who in turn tells the other cook
Cooks whenever duties are assigned to a subordinate that subordinate must be given the authority to accomplish those duties
The subordinates held responsible for accomplishing the assigned task, but overall responsibility for its success remains with the marine
Originating the order. This is a horrible example
And there's a couple reasons why
Number one, it's talking about cooks and we don't want to hear about cooks, right?
Um
Not that logistics don't win war because they certainly do
And not that I don't love the people that make food for me when I'm in the military
But that's not really what makes it a bad example. It's actually good that they're given some various things, but here's the thing
The mess officer tells the chief cook what foods to prepare for a meal
Right that is wrong
The
Cheat the the mess officer should be saying hey
This is how many people we have to feed
Make it happen. Yeah, he could be like hey, this is all we were able to get from headquarters supply. This is the you know like
He doesn't tell I shouldn't tell him anything other than when he needs to get done and what he's got available to make that happen
Yep. Yeah, I just really wrote down. I I was showing like I literally wrote down the word tell with a question
Don't do that. Yeah, and really then the chief cooks should be like hey guys, you know, here's how many people we got to food feed
What what do you guys think we should make?
and let the troops decide this is authoritarian leadership and
It's not the best way to lead
So watch out for that
Just watch out for that
Besides the decentralization of authority
Another purpose of the chain of command is to link different levels of command
It is a way that the infantry private can talk to his battalion commander
The private first goes through his fire team leader with a problem if the problem cannot be solved by his fire team leader he sent to squad leader
Then the platoon sergeant and platoon commander and finally the company commander
If the problem cannot be solved by any of these marines after they have
They are seen in order of their authority the private is sent to the battalion commander
Any marine can go as high as necessary to get the problem solved
All that the marine must do is follow the chain of command one step at a time
A marine does not have to disclose the subject of a request mass
To anyone in the chain of command except the commander with whom he is requesting the mass
This is always like a big threat
Of requesting mass. Did you did you guys hear that threat? Oh, yeah
Yeah, well, we'll make a guy want to request mass usually the sense of being wronged or something like that
Listen, I heard I mean
I obviously knew what requesting mass was and at some point in my career
I was going to be the person that they were going to be requesting
Did you ever have one dude it never happened never happened. What is it?
Basically like and I know jocke had to but like you want you want to make sure marines understand that they they
They do have the latitude that if somehow that there's there's there's some misconduct occurring in their chain of command
They can go up the chain to the right authority
To to have their grievance error. They're concerned, you know articulated to the boss
So something somebody isn't getting the way so you can go up through the chain and I can actually skip my boss
I'm it's rudimentary in this example, but I can skip my boss and go to the the big boss if I need to request mass and like he was
Describing it can almost be like a you's like
A threat or like I'm gonna request massed. Is that say like in mass? No, that's something else captain's master
That's that's in the other direction. That's like echo. You did something dumb and you
Lost equipment or you did something dumb got in trouble now. You're going to captain's mass. Okay, so it's like okay got it
But this one is this one is like, you know, I'm in an argument with Dave Dave is my boss
and I think
Dave's making us do a dumb plan and I could literally say I'm requesting captain's math. I'm requesting asked
I'd be like jocke you're not on duty tomorrow, but you're gonna come in and it's like Christmas day or something
And you're like, no, I'm not on duty and I don't have to do that. And like this is the duty roster and I have the day off
I'm like, nope. You're coming in and he in theory could be like
I'm gonna go over your head and I'm gonna go to the boss and say like hey
I think he's treating me unfairly and and that way he's not evicted by my really awful leadership of making you do something
That's dumb. We're not fair. So it's like enough or it is an official
Like what he called protocol to go above above the chain or whatever
That's it
off discussed
Rarely executed
When we when we had that mutiny. Yeah, that was kind of like that. It wasn't quite official
Because but we were like, hey, we want to talk to the skipper and we went talk to the skipper
But it wasn't like we didn't we didn't have to go to the floor
There was another time there was almost like a request mask scenario that someone was talking about but I don't remember what it was
all right
The purpose of the marine enceo and the chain of command the marine enceo non commissioned officer
Is the lowest rank link in the chain of command?
The first purpose of that link is to carry the orders and information passed from the enceo's immediate supervisor to the enceo
Sporn it's a pass requests from the marines up the chain of command and let me give you a little hint everybody
You're gonna be translating
What is said down the chain of command and translating what is said back up the chain of command
So if I'm working for Dave and echo works for me and echo says this is the dumbest thing we've ever done
I say hey, sir. We'd like to reconsider the way approach that we're taking
And when when Dave says tell those guys to shut up and do what I told them to do
I say hey echo
I did brief the skipper about this and we're gonna go ahead. We want to proceed with what we've been directing
So you're gonna do translation
And you're translation you're actually buffering the friction that's gonna be there because it's definitely gonna be there
Uh in this manner the enceo is a link between marine subordinates and their commanding officer as this link
The enceo is responsible for enforcing the orders of the commands orders and commands of the commanding officer
The enceo accomplishes this by assigning tasks and then supervising work. That's what
You know, I mentioned that this was this is coming out in the year 2000
And you can see it's and we're gonna get to some part where they go more decentralized and they're using the term
Decentralized, but what we're reading is not decentralized. This is orders and execution
And following duties, right? That's what that's the way this reads
and
Again
This is aimed at a very low rank. I've it's written in here somewhere
But this is aimed at like corpils and lance corpils like e2 e1 z2 z3s
um, maybe e4s
so
Yeah, so and I didn't read that opening piece
But if when I hear enceo in the marine corps a corporal in the marine corps an enceo
That's actually not common across so you're you're I see this as a way to teach
Enlisted Marines e1 e2 e3 private lance corps a private private first-class lance corporal how to one day become an enceo
And I'm really like man, this is rudimentary. It's almost like they're doing it on purpose like
They're describing decentralized command
In a way that's actually not decentralized command because it's so rudimentary like
Don't tell people what to do. But I got okay. I think what they're trying to explain is like this is how
This is how it works in the chaining command. It's really low level in the way that described it's described
Uh, when a subordinate is given a task to supervise the enceo must also give the marine enough authority to accomplish the task
But overall responsibility remains with the enceo remember
Then here's a great point
As a supervisor in the marines or civilian life you can delegate authority, but you can never delegate
Responsibility and this is something we talk about giving ownership
You know when I give ownership to dave to go and accomplish a project and he messes it up
I still own the failure
So um a second purpose of the marine enceo is to train marines to perform their assigned tasks
This training usually in the marines m.os is a combination of on-the-job training and classroom instruction
The marine enceo must be able to demonstrate and teach
More important. He must inspire the marines making them want to learn the skills expect
He's expected to master or they expected to master
And the third purpose is to ensure close supervision and personal guidance of junior marines
And this part disturbed me without a supervising enceo many tasks would not be finished properly if at all
The personal guidance provides a junior marine with someone else to turn to with help or personal problems or preferences so
We don't like that
We meaning me. I don't know if you do. I shouldn't I say I should I don't like it
I understand exactly what you're saying. So we you don't want to have a group of people who unless they are
Supervised closely. They don't do things right that means I'm failing in like 19 different ways as a leader
So that's that's not our goal. Our goal is not to just
Have everything so supervised that it gets done because if we're supervising that closely
Well, then we're too close to problem and we aren't seeing the other things
We're not seeing the big picture and by the way, why why why do we have troops that aren't doing what they're supposed to do?
So if you're a leader in an organization if you're working at a company and the only way things get done properly is if they are being
Strictly supervised. This is a horrible sign
You need to start going down the path of giving more ownership giving more autonomy
Giving people parameters giving them mission type orders, which means telling them
What needs to get done why it needs to get done but not how to do it?
That's what we're gonna go for
Yeah, you you said it already and I was thinking about this this
the concept of decentralized command and how it's different from
I tell you you tell your subordinate you tell your like that is not decentralized command. That's the direction which the
Things flow in the chain of command if you want to use that from a hierarchy
But I just I can't help but think about the the timing of this like October of
Sorry, October of 2000. Yeah, like that's like 9 10. That's like right before 9 11
And before that was like desert storm which listen desert from was legit
But it was like four days long like it and so you have an error here
And what I had what I wrote down is like DC works decentralized command works
But it doesn't it doesn't become
as as
It doesn't reveal
The necessity of it until you're in an environment by which nothing else will work other than decentralized command and in garrison you can kind of
You can kind of power your way through you can you are you can still micro manage
and chain of command lead in garrison and if you spend a
Like a career in garrison
And
What they're describing and this is not to defend it like just you said it well like this is we don't want to do this
But unless you've been in a situation like convent like oh crap
The only way the the only way we will be successful is if we have real decentralized command mission type orders
Chaka goes and makes things happen because all he knows is the outcome and I can't help him with anything else because he's off doing his thing
You don't understand how not just how important is but how it actually works and there's just these little
There's just like little little pieces of like garrison leadership inside that even it's like oh, that's the wrong word
Don't use that word. It's the wrong word. Yeah, and without the context of
knowing
When and how it works and I know it's kind of like they're going to say the real world
But I'll talk about combat without that you are going to use the words that they're using and they're not the right words
The psychology of military incompetence
Wait that book was so spot-on and it was able to capture sort of the
The things that I always thought about
but
The the fact that in the garrison environment
You can totally micromanage. You can totally micromanage
Like it's like if you work at a restaurant and you only have like you've got you've got 10 tables
And hey, here's the rules at our restaurant
Only five tables are going to be filled at a time. We've got
Five tables. We actually have five waiters
and we've got
five cooks
And boom waiters going to talk to that cook and okay cool. Yep. Hey, you getting what they need? Yep, everything's like you micromanage everything you can
Hey
Bring them their bread bring the table that bread
You know, you can do it. Did they get their drinks you can micromanage everything in a restaurant that has
Five tables five waiters and five cooks because everything is just
It's going to work
And even when someone says, you know, hey
Can I get extra onions? You like no no no that's not on the menu. You can't get that
Now if you go to a real restaurant like a big restaurant
A bunch of different people and they're like those waiters are going to have to make some decisions
That cooks are going to be like, all right, we're going to get this done
Hey run over to run over to Vaughn's and grab some extra milk because like that stuff's got to happen people got to make decisions
So in the garrison environment, you can micromanage things
But as soon as you get into a dynamic environment as soon as you get into a combat environment
You have to use decentralized command 100% and in any organization that's that's
Going to progress you have to use decentralized command. So yes, if you work at a completely controlled
Environment you can micromanage. It's going to it's not going to be as efficient
But it is a feasible thing. Yeah, it's not going to be as efficient
But it's going to be a feasible thing as soon as you get to
Any any kind of dynamic environment you're going to fall apart if you if you try and micromanage everything. It's the way things work
All right
four areas of
nco responsibility
Your country one responsibility as a marine nco
To your country is to demonstrate behavior that dignifies the united states of america and
The american people for example when you are in a foreign country
Conduct yourself in such a way that the people of that country will not be offended
Convey the feeling that you are an ally and are in their country as a guest friend and protector of freedom
Not every marine read that section when I was in the seale teams in the 1990s on ships with the marines pulling it into port
The marine corps as a marine nco
It is your duty to be loyal to the marine corps policies
You have responsibility to develop leadership skills professional knowledge and proficiency
You develop this skill knowledge and proficiency through on the job experience reading taking correspondence courses attending service schools
And by seeking new tasks
You also have the responsibility of presenting a favorable image of the marine of the united states marines to both public and or sister services
Community activity and friendly interservice competitions are ways of presenting a favorable image
Check organization your responsibilities to your own organization or many one important responsibility
This training marines as a team in developing that teams loyalties
And it says here to achieve good teamwork a unit must show
Unhesitating response to orders and regulations
You accomplish this by demanding discipline within your unit by taking responsibility at all times for the conduct of your marines
So they're going hard in the paint for the garrison life. Yeah
You're bummed out you gave me this book aren't you?
Well, no, I think it's awesome because I'm like I can't help but
I know what you're trying to say. I that's what I'm telling myself when I'm like, I hear what you're saying
I know what you're trying to say and so
Inside that and you do a good job like you you can pull out the components of like
This is really what you need to be doing. Yeah, and so words like demanding. We're not going to say that
But but in the end I go, oh, I know what they're getting at. So I think it's actually a really cool exercise
To go through this and other things and actually look and go
Hey, this is what they're talking about here. This is a better way to do that or this is a way to pull out
What the lesson could be even though it's not explained very well or not written very well and the other side of like
It'd be better if they just did it said it differently
They just did it said it differently. So like this book is awesome and everything's perfect in here, which is not
Well, the crazy thing is we've covered so many Marine Corps manuals where they literally are perfect
You need war fighting and it's just like, okay. Yep. This is a
Totally don't change a word and as a matter of fact embrace this and put it into every aspect of your life
Yeah, and maybe the thing about this and dude, we always talk about this
We always try to picture the room of the people that are like in here writing this and who these people are
I wonder if they like it's almost like you fall into the trap of like, oh these young Marines
They need to be they need to have it explain to them
It's and like no like you don't need to do that quite so much like they almost feel like they fell in the trap of
All these kids are so young. They're so uneducated. They're so inexperienced
We have to make this so rudimentary that they actually don't do it correctly
As opposed like no, we need to explain this the way you'd explain it to anybody whether you're the CEO of a giant company
No, is there differences? Sure depending on your lay of leadership
But it's almost like they make it
Too narrow because they maybe don't think the audience would understand it. I'm gonna go one step further
I think you're right where they're like, hey, we're telling these guys what they need to do is shut up and unhesitatingly follow
All orders. Yeah, that's basically it like you're gonna get told what to do and you should do it immediately
Right, that's what they're saying. Yeah, that's literally what it says
Unhesitating response to orders and regulations like that's what it's saying now listen
Is there an element of that in any organization?
Sure
However
Unhesitatingly
What what we're getting at is I'm not gonna question anything that I'm told and this is the last thing I actually want totally
And if I'm dealing with a brand new guy that doesn't know anything
I still want him to go hold on sir
Can you explain to me why we're doing it this way because I want him to know that
Yeah, and they don't they don't reveal the fact there's a balance in any of this or dichotomy because there's actually examples
You give where you're like, hey do this and actually you need your people to respond right away
And when they don't you need to realize oh damn they know something
I don't know and there's a reason they're not doing it unhesitatingly. So even inside that there's
There's a there's a balance in that dichotomy. That's just not revealed. So you're gonna read and go
uh
Un whatever the word do exactly what I say when I say it like
I know what you're saying, but that's not right. Like that's not what you do. What podcast did we talk about colonel pogh?
What were you doing?
It was it it was one of those marine corps. I believe it was one of those manuals and we were picturing
Like there was one the guy kept throwing in a sentence
And like it was like the last paragraph of each section
It was all these awesome paragraphs and this morning like that sucks
That's not right and you pictured like the guy in charge was colonel pogh who took all like his junior marines awesome writing
And he's like i'm gonna make sure they also know at the end
The person in charge still gets to do what he wants to do with some garbage like that and it was that I don't remember
Which one is that colonel pogh? Yeah, and if you don't know what a pogh is that's a slang military term for like the rear
echelon person that's
all
authoritarian leadership style and never does anything
Real that's the pogh and speaking of colonel pogh
Unit courtesy is clearly related to the unit's discipline and cooperation an example of unit courtesy is coming to attention for an officer
This is like
So pre 9 11 unit courtesy has a special impractical use often instructions for a mission must be given in noisy surroundings
Time and effort are saved
If the commander has the attention of all marines at once rather than waiting for marines to be quiet
The officer should not be expected to shout over the voices of the marines and compete with surrounding noise too
So
Like you see they put a nice little element of truth in there like oh, yeah
Oh, you're kind of like yeah, yeah, but you also you're like thinking
It's like telling it's and there is I am a believer that there is truth that
being a good follower
Is get you on the path of being a good leader like being a good follower is important and there's just this
this overarching piece of of
How to be a follower is like this the foundation of this like oh when when when criminal broke walks on the reburr stand at attention
Look, oh Roger that, you know like
I know what you're saying, but
Yeah, that followership in there is like this blind obedience is not what you want from your people when the skipper would when we be getting
Ready to do like a seal team one when I got to seal team one and the skipper would come and talk to everyone
Like we'd all be in the classroom
And when the skipper would walk and they'd say feet that's what they'd say did they say that to you guys
Attention on deck they say feet
No, I would like that because it was a big change from you know, you go to boot camp and it's a tension on back
And you get to the seal team one and I'm young jocco in there like you're all standing by and he comes in here feet
And you're just like boom. Yeah
I was motivated by some weird stuff when I was younger
Uh developing unit loyalty is another of your responsibilities to your organization
Just as you must ensure loyalty toward marine core policies
You must ensure your marines have loyalty toward the organization's policies
It's kind of strange to be talking about policies like
Like in this book at this juncture. I don't know like let's talk about combat people
Let's talk about every marine's a rifleman
And belief in the mission. Yes
And taking care of your brothers. What you're talking about. Yeah. That's what you mean. Yeah
Yeah, did you wait? Did you mean do you mean take care of your your your fellow marine? Is that what you mean here?
Is that what you mean?
Uh, if unit pt is required, this is how you know this is how you know if unit t
You unit pt is required. You must conduct real pt session
You can't just go through the motions making each assigned task as interesting as possible and doing each task enthusiastically will help
You develop your unit loyalty. Okay, we'll give it to him
um
Subordinates as a marine nco. You have certain responsibilities to your subordinates
It's the qualifier of certain right
You have certain responsibilities to subordinates. Actually, you're 100 responsible to your subordinates
You must train subordinates in their m.os to develop the proficiency and skills marine the marine corps needs often proficiency and mos means life and death
Either to the individual marine or to another marine. You must educate your subordinates in the military skills and encourage
Individual self-improvement. You must be aware of educational opportunities and the unit's policies to know where to direct
Marines desiring aid
Cool. They want to educate their marines. This is this is
When you invest in your people
When you you know when you're working at a bank and you got a teller and you're like, hey
We can pay for your you know to get you to get your cpa and you can become a financial advisor
Like when you set people up and you invest in them
You want to talk about developing loyalty. That's how you develop loyalty. You take care of your people
invest in their education
Give them more opportunity talk to them about what it's going to get to get them
promoted
Uh, it says here perhaps the most important of the responsibilities of the nco towards subordinates is taking care of their physical needs
These needs include quarters and food. You have no control over building
Which is an interesting thing to say you have no control over building. Okay
But you can ensure that the assigned areas are as good as the situation allows by enforcing high standards of police cleanliness
And discipline you can make the quarters as comfortable as possible with as with building
You have no control over food preparation
But by ensuring that the marines are on time for meals and improper uniform. You can make meals more pleasant
I'm starting to lose it dude. I'm starting to lose it
Well, here's here's one thing that's crazy me. I get it man
I have no you have no control that right there
I've I don't think I've ever told a person in my life. You have no control over this particular thing, right?
I don't think I've ever I don't think I've ever told I certainly would never teach a group of individual human beings
You have no control
Over your building. I was like, oh wait a second. What are you talking about? We don't like where we live. Okay
What can we do to fix it? What can you do to make it better?
What well, let's let's let's get together and explain what the shortfalls are so we can pass up the chain of command
So we can get some improvements
We want, you know to get this the the sink in the bathroom to stop dripping cool
We I do that maintenance myself like what I have no give no control over what you eat really
No control over what you eat like maybe today
But if I'm gonna live here and I'm in this chow hall and you don't think that I can raise problems and get things fixed and adjusted and moved
Please don't tell me I have no control over something
Um, there you go. I'm firing up a bunch of Marines right now. We're getting fired up
This is the first time the Marine Corps at large is gonna be mad at me. I was gonna be going to the chow hall like we want steak
Semper fi brothers you deserve steak
Um in the field you will be the last one to eat check
You can take care of your Marines needs by ensuring that all problems such as those
Enquarters maintenance food quality and food quantity are brought to the attention of immediate super. So you're gonna get that
Food quantity are brought to the attention of immediate super. So you're off control
come on
Marines like everybody else need relaxation recreation time is made available for all Marines organized
Organizational sports and unit get-togethers are ways of letting Marines relax mentally and physically you must ensure that Marines get their fair share of liberty
This responsibility to your subordinate Marines is as of much such importance that it will be discussed in a later separate lesson
Before you can expect the most of your subordinate Marines
You must ensure their well-being take care of your team and they will take care of you take care of your people and they will take care of you
Mayhem out there
Importance of leadership. Why'd you hand me this manual just to make me like frustrated?
Uh, it sounds worse, you know, you know, sometimes I've I've told you I've told both you guys like
I'll read a book like when especially early on when I read a book for the podcast
And I would it first happened with the forgotten Highlander
I was reading that book and I was like, damn this is a pretty heavy book
But when I read it out loud, it was so amplified in my head, you know, it's so much more emotional
And so much more harsh when I was reading this
A few days ago. I read it on a plane
And um, I was like, ah, that's kind of funny, but now it's like actually cracking me up
Check all right leadership in general
Well, importance of leadership. Why is leadership so important? The answer to this question is simple
Without leadership, nothing requiring teamwork can be accomplished. Check
Before you can talk effectively about leadership, you must know what leadership means
There are almost as many definitions of leadership as there are leaders the definition that combines all the ideas is simply this
the sum of those qualities of intellect human understanding and moral character that enables a person to inspire
And control a group of people successfully
Can we come up with a different word than control? Maybe just maybe we can use the word influence
But they use the word control totally. Yeah, so again, we're talking garrison
mindset like I'm gonna get my waiters to do exactly what I tell them to do because
I have control over everything and I can control them
Not a good sign. It's so funny, man. Yeah, they're I don't remember the exact saying but there's like this metaphor of like when someone's
Um, sort of in the right area, but but but off the mark
They they'll say something like and I wish I could remember it like you did in the reference
You're shooting you're you're shooting on the right target, which means I'm on paper
Yeah, but I'm missing the the the mark or whatever it's like
If I'm way off I'm like shooting on somebody else's target like that's a real problem
So I can't help it like
I know what you're I you're you're sort of in the right like you're point at the right place
But you're you're you're hitting all over the you're not off the target, right?
But you were off the mark like we would say in the teams like you're on paper
Okay, meaning like there's a bullseye. That's a little black thing. Yeah. Yeah, and then there's like rings around it
Yes, you're not in the rings, but you're on the broader like big giant piece of paper at the butts at
Yeah, exactly. Yeah, and island it's like, okay, you're
Actually, you're you're you're on paper. I mean you're you're hitting it. Yeah
We are off the mark. Yeah, you have shooting on the right target
Which just means like if echoes like shooting at someone else's turn like, okay, we need like this is a whole different problem
But I just like you are not hitting the target
But but you're on the print. I know what you're trying to say, but you're just they're on paper
But they got some they gotta make some adjustments and and that difference is is 20 of war. That's like, yeah
Yeah, yeah, and that difference on being on paper versus being that's a kill shot versus
Not, you know, you're you're all gonna die because you can't shoot straight totally man
crazy
Leadership and you know, it's funny. You're gonna see well, we're not gonna cover this whole manual
But you're gonna see when they get back to sort of fundamentals
It seems like they're trying to explore new territory here. That's what it seems like to me
You can almost pitch like hey go back and come up with um, you know, like the best example you can
Yeah, and they're like, okay. Okay. I remember this time when I was like the mess hall
Like they're not remembering
Rilotti or Fallujah or Baghdad or they're remembering
Cooking or like yeah, which is fine
But that's all they have in their repository to come out of like oh the scenarios that they want to use to illustrate these examples
They don't have the examples. Yeah
And what the problem here's the problem with those examples
The problem isn't the example of being being logisticians in the Marine Corps and cooking in the Marine Corps. God bless you
and in the Navy
God bless you. The problem is they're not the dynamic situations that demand
The type of leadership that we know to be effective
So
It just doesn't work as well
If you are cooking in a combat environment
You're talking about how these people need to make decisions on what what they're going to put forward like those are things that that's
Decentralized command is going to is the only way it's going to work
How are you going to get food to for four platoons or in four different locations right now doing like crazy 24 7 operate yet?
Yeah, totally
uh
Elements of leadership this definition does not mention the military because leadership is not exclusive to the military
We concur leadership is necessary wherever two or more people get together to perform a common task check
The leader's primary purpose is to ensure that the job is done or in the words of the military that the mission has accomplished
Three essential elements are needed to perform the role of a leader
The leader is the first essential element the second element leadership is the group
And the third is the situation and i'm not going to cover this because
Again, this is something that i'd never seen before and it seemed like maybe somebody
had an idea
And the idea is that in these for leadership to happen
There has to be a leader that has to be a group and there has to be a situation and that's what leadership is
So i get it
But we're not going to spend a bunch of time on it. Um, the objective of military leadership
The united states military has the mission of keeping our country free to accomplish this mission
Strong military leadership is essential marines are all potential leaders and military leadership should be important to everyone
The objective or goal of military leadership is the creation and maintenance of an organization which will
Loyally and willingly accomplish any reasonable task assigned or indicated and will initiate suitable action in the absence of orders
So
What's interesting is it's interesting that it says the goal of military leadership and it doesn't really say anything about
War and combat that's number one
Because that's what the military is for by the way is for war and combat and it can do a bunch of other things as well and it does
Here's another thing willingly, loyally and willingly accomplish any reasonable task. You know what that should be
it should be
legal task, right
Because we want to make sure that people are doing things that are
within the code of contact within the within the law of land warfare
And then they get it right at the end which is
Suitable action in the absence of orders. That's like yeah the tiniest sliver of what we want. Yeah
Even in the beginning
Like I think it's that something like all marines are potential leaders like stop
All marines are leaders. Yeah, just as something is marines are all potential leaders. Yeah. Nope. No everybody
Every every marine is a leader. Yes every one of you. Yes. Yeah, totally
It's like you said they're on paper. They're on the paper. We get what you're saying
We hear what you're saying
Three reasons for military leadership
The first reason is the coordination of people and activities within a unit that is getting the right people to do the right job
Okay, that's good
Without such coordination capable people will not be assigned the right tasks. Okay
The second reason for military leadership is to hold a military unit together a military unit is made up of people organized to
accomplish a mission that requires a successful completion of a series of tasks
When the unit is deployed a number of set tasks must be assigned to complete it again, it's all top down
This is like this is the the top down manual
The unit must be inspected to ensure readiness training schedules must be prepared in logistics plans
Must be made up because it would be difficult for one leader to do all things alone
Unit leaders are needed. Okay, so we want a little decentralized command. Thank you
In the marine corps these unit leaders
form a chain of command from a command on
on down to the smallest unit so
Third reason for military leadership is to ensure a unit success the unit achieve success by accomplishing the assigned mission
Through demonstration motivation and hard work leaders ensure that all missions are accomplished
A leader's failure to ensure that subordinates accomplish their task leads the failure of a unit to accomplish its mission
And thus failure of the military service and carrying out a larger mission
And if the military service fails our country and way of life are in danger, okay
Somebody cool wrote that little section and didn't get too heavily edited by colonel pogh
Responsibilities of leadership leadership implies responsibility
Within the military structure there are two general areas of responsibility for every leader in every situation
They are one the responsibility for ensuring that the mission is accomplished and two the responsibility to the subordinates
Who work to accomplish that mission excellent, right?
Completion of the mission is the first priority of leadership
I swear I was just about to say I wish he had just reversed those two like in the previous paragraph
Like the way he wrote it in order and here's the thing
These these two
the the men and the mission the subordinates and the mission taking care of the and and
Putting the mission as the priority listen
There are times and that's that's what the military does the military
has to sacrifice
Or at least put at risk their troops in order to accomplish the mission sometimes
But if you continually put the mission above the troops you won't have any more troops
And by the way, you'll probably have a mutiny as well
Totally because if you're just throwing people to die to accomplish the mission
Then they're going to rebel against you
Yeah, I mean this is I mean
This is an ongoing debate this conversation
I've heard and and been a part of and listened to countless times all throughout my military career and even to now even in business
You know this mission or people debate and I remember when I was
I was out I was on an exchange with the Air Force when the Air Force like changed their motto
And I think the motto became
Models are wrong word
not their motto, but
Some guiding principle it said like yeah, like it's they ended up becoming like resolving to like mission first people always
And and the way I I heard that was like
Yeah, it's really hard to articulate
This is more important than that. I mean obviously
We have to achieve the mission
The concept of the people if you want to say the people are the mission or the people are first
It's actually in the vein of making sure the mission gets done
It's not to subordinate the mission over the people it's to recognize is the number one thing I have
For me to make sure that I'm successful in my mission, which you could say is the most important thing
Is my people and if you can recognize that then all of a sudden you don't this isn't a debate of like what's more important than the other
But if you get them out of order
You undermine your ability to be successful in that mission because without your people it will not happen and in fact
The best thing I can do to be successful in my mission
Is put my people ahead of myself and the chance of me being successful in the mission go up. Yeah
The other thing is
When you accomplish your mission
Even with sacrifice
You should the it should be a win for everyone
So if you're doing missions where there's not like every single person should be saying yes
This is what I want to do because I want to take I want to protect our way of life
I want to protect freedom. I want to protect my family. I want to protect my country in order to do that
I want to do this mission
So when you accomplish when you execute you plan and execute and accomplish a mission
You have the mission is taking care of the people, right? That's what should be happening
You shouldn't be going. Oh
We're going to go and do this mission
But no one in my platoon will benefit every single person in your platoon should benefit from executing a mission
Because you're protecting their families their way of life
Like that's what we're doing and and nowhere is that more true than in combat? Yeah, and that's that's how that manifests itself
That's how it becomes to be so real when you're in a leadership position
Is that concept of the meaning behind those mission is like you would never send your seals out on a mission
That didn't do anything to accomplish the mission and in that same vein you wrote about it that is the
In the core of that is the ultimate dichotomy is you care about your people enough
That you know when you send them out there
They might not come back and the balance of inside that but that reveals itself
And magnifies itself so much in war
That understanding of what am I actually having to go do and and I wouldn't waste
An ounce of human life on something that doesn't actually help us win
But if it does
The risk of that is they don't come back
Yeah
Gets into this
section here leadership styles
There are two extremes in leadership styles
The authoritarian
autocratic and the persuasive
democratic
Each leader is free to choose a style of leadership
Oh
The choice of leadership style is influenced by situation
By the situation the subordinates and the leaders personality
Authoritarian style the authoritarian leader leads by personal control
Characteristics of the authoritarian leader style are as file are as follows
Let's support let's subordinates know he is in charge
Makes subordinates into a team but remains outside the team membership
Tells subordinates what to do and how to do it
Makes all decisions without asking for suggestions
And then there's the persuasive style the persuasive leader uses personality to lead and influence
Subordinates characteristics of the per persuasive leadership style are as follows doesn't emphasize that he's in charge
Develop subordinates into a team of which the leader is a member
Asks subordinates to do their jobs
Makes the decision
But asks for listens to and sometimes takes subordinates advice
Oh, it's beautiful. I like I like how it like even in the extreme example of the persuasive style
It's sometimes going to take the advice
You know and still have to make sure that he's making the decision. Yeah
Um, so that's that's good stuff
And it says that the two styles of leadership mentioned above are the extremes
Each style has its bad and good points
What are the good points of the first one like letting everyone know i'm in charge
Making people in a team but not being a part of it telling supporters what to do and how to do it and making decisions without ever
There's like
Dang man, and how about like oh hey by the way you're jaco, you're free to pick what everyone you want to go
However, you want to do this is up to like not one as good and one as bad. Yep. It just you know, you can pick which one
Um
As displayed in front of subordinates the authoritarian must be perfect or the subordinates will lose respect for the leader
That's that's a great. That's you know, so hey look if you want to be authoritarian, obviously just be perfect
That's you know, hey just go ahead and be perfect
Uh, the persuasive leader must be very alert that subordinates won't play on friendships to get out of doing their work
Oh gosh
Very few marine leaders are strictly authoritarian or strictly persuasive. So we finally get a taste of some dichotic values
Yeah
Most of them fall somewhere between the two styles taking bits and pieces from each the pieces used from each style are determined
By the individual leader the subordinates in the situation at the time
Every marine from private to general needs leadership whether marines are aware of it or not
They seek leadership and it goes into talk about these tangible
Um reasons for needing leadership and intangible reasons for leadership the tangible things are like training instruction
Physical necessities like your shelter and your food. Those are why you need leadership because you won't be able to get them on your own
I guess
Uh incentives if you want to fulfill the need for incentives and challenges. That's why you need leadership
The intangible ones are you have the uh people have the the desire for adventure and security and belonging and recognition
So those were not going to spend a bunch of times on those
And we get to the leader's code
Lesson six the leader's code to be an effective leader
You must know your profession professional strengths and weaknesses
The leader's code is a guideline to use in making an honest evaluation
Of yourself in leadership after you determine these areas you can improve weak areas and exploit the strong areas
I didn't think we were gonna have much this much fun with this. Well, here's a good example like the leader's code
This is obviously a big deal
And you've never heard of it before and it didn't make it out of this book
It's not horrible
but
I become a leader by what I do is the leader's code. I become a leader by what I do
I know my strengths and my weaknesses and I strive constantly for self-improvement
I live by a moral code with which I set by an example that others can emulate
I know my isn't there a little bit of arrogance in that statement. I'm just wondering
Hey, you know what I'm just gonna I'll be over here just setting an example that you guys can emulate. You guys good?
Uh, I know my job and I carry out the spirit as well as the letter of the orders I receive
I take initiative and seek responsibilities and I face situations with boldness and confidence
I estimate the situations and make my own decisions as to the best course of action
No matter what the requirements, I stay with the job until the job is done. No matter what the results
I assume full responsibilities. Cool
I train my men as a team and lead them with tact and enthusiasm and with justice
I command their confidence
and their loyalty
Interesting use of the word
They know that I would not assign them any duty. I would myself would not perform check
I see that they understand their orders and I follow through energetically to ensure
That their duties are fully discharged. I keep my men informed check and I make their welfare one of my prime concerns
Check
These things I do self selflessly in fulfillment of the obligations of leadership for the achievement of the life of the group goal
Check so make their welfare one of your prime concerns. This should be up there somewhere, you know
Uh, and then you're supposed to do like a self evaluation according to this code
Kind of an interesting concept and you know, look, I'm obviously I'm skipping through but they've got like suggested
Activities that you can do at some time in your career
You've been assigned a job which both you and your senior know you could do for some reason
Your senior stood over your shoulder and kept telling you how to do it
The senior did not trust you with the authority of that job. How did that make you feel?
To make matters worse you discovered later that the job should not have been done in the way that you were instructed to do it
And your supervisor seemed to hold it against you
That he was gigged for the job. What can you learn from this gives you a bunch of little examples, which some of them are pretty good
Um, and then it gives you a test and little exercises to do. So that's how you you complete these books
Developing leaders
Leadership traits and principles and this is where you get to sort of fundamental more
Pragmatic stuff that is taken from
More historical
When you get into traits and principles, those are I'm guessing those are going to be like
The traditional like ubiquitous marine corps JJ did type buckle those type of things that that have stood the test of time
Yeah, uh nature of leadership traits leadership traits are individual characteristics proper
Understanding of the 14 leadership traits will help you gain nor respect confidence willing obedience
and cooperation of your Marines
Check
The purpose of leadership traits the purpose of the 14 leadership traits is to help you set guidelines for yourself by evaluating your own personality
And with respect to your leadership traits you can find personal strengths and weaknesses of leadership by following traits as a guide
You can exploit your strong traits and develop your weaker leadership traits and then talks about leadership principles as well
And here's the 14 leadership traits
Number one is integrity and it gives you a definition of what integrity is but then it tells you sort of how to execute integrity
As leader you must have on question integrity honesty a sense of duty moral principles must be placed above all else
You must be totally trustworthy for support and staff faith in you and for your senior staff confidence in you
The trait of integrity is developed by following four practices. Here's these four practice
Practice absolute honesty and be trustworthy at all times not only with yourself
But with others never shade the truth
Be accurate and truthful in all statements. Don't tell your supervisors only what you think they want to hear
Tell it as is but tactfully stand for what you believe
Even if your belief is an unpopular one place honesty and duty above all else
So that's the number one thing integrity obviously very important next one is knowledge
Nothing will gain confidence in respect of your subordinates more than quickly demonstrating knowledge
And it talks about correspondence courses and reading newspapers for current events and having discussions with experienced people
And it gives you the the things to do read all kinds of articles and take courses listen to experienced people ask questions
The next trait is courage
Courage the physical and mental control of fear is essential to leadership
Courage is a mental quality that allows you to recognize fear yet enables you to meet danger or opposition with calmness and firmness
Courage is a quality of mind that gives you personal control
Enabling you to accept responsibility and act in a dangerous situation
You show physical courage when you continue to perform in the face of personal danger
Physical courage also means controlling your emotions and you show moral courage when you stand up for and enforce decisions
That are right even in the face of popular disfavor admitting errors takes real moral courage
To develop the leadership trait of courage you need to do the following it's funny that
admitting errors
Is put on the pedestal of needing real moral courage that kind of shows you the mental attitude
Whoever's right this I'd be like hey brah. I mean like that's like 101
There's no moral courage and said hey, you know what I made I made a mistake here for this duty
He's like bro. You need so much moral courage to say I was wrong
Uh
This is a good one though place duty over your personal desires or feelings
Look for and accept responsibilities
Speak in a calm tone keep an order order new lists orderliness in your thought process
And not make any physical danger or hardship bigger than it really is
Stand for what is right even in the face of popular disfavor
Never blame others for your mistakes check recognize fear but control your emotions. So there you go courage
Decisiveness
I think we might I mean we might even just call it like you never you ever been in a game where you're like, all right, dude
Hey, we just need to walk away right now like we're calling the game. This one might do it to dave burk. It might do it to me
I don't know
So here we go next thing is decisiveness
Decisiveness is the ability to weigh all the facts in a situation analyze the facts and then arrive at a sound and timely decision
but
Before you make a decision you must be sure that you have all the facts
Decisiveness is largely a matter of practice and experience to develop the trade of decisiveness
You should develop so here's why we're laughing at that
There is no situation
Where you have all the facts doesn't exist. I mean even the word facts is a strong word to use in combat facts
Is it is a word you probably shouldn't even use
Yeah, just insert combat into that scenario and no combat leader would
Would they just wouldn't articulate that way because all you're doing is recognizing you have to make decisions
With the void of all sorts of useful information. That's just the nature of it. Forget about facts
Just like basic scenario understanding of what's going on which is why decentralized command is so important because the close you are the more
Yeah, this one is almost like maybe you're off the target a little bit like
I'll give it to you. This is like you just you didn't even hit the berm
You missed
You had a misfire
So interesting, but you know when you look at the military
in the
80s and 90s
and
Look, you but you and I were both in the 90s where this isn't me pointing the finger. This is me
I mean, this is what we did was hey, we need to know everything
We would plan these big missions with a 96 hour planning cycle. That was the standard in the SEAL teams
Did you guys have a standard? I actually think there was I I know that phrase the 96 hour planning
96 hour planning so if you wanted to go conduct a direct action mission, you need to have a 96 hour planning cycle
I have literally conducted direct action missions with seven minutes
And go and launch like that's what we got to so and if you think I had
Quote all the facts bro. We had like a rough grid of where the target might be
Update us as we move
Well, we had I mean, I think the term qrf is somewhat universal like the quicker reaction force
We had a stand a standing qrf all the time which had a very short
After five minutes we had some number like it was five minutes
It was some at some period of time from the time that got triggered to launch the qrf was a very very short period of time
minutes whatever it was
The most likelihood of direct action
Happened on those like if you will launch on a qrf you are going to get into some
fight somehow
And you had no you didn't there's nope
I mean it best you like you're like yelling at the turret gunner who might not even be your turret gunner because he's not actually
Like he's in the chow hall. He's in the chow hall like dude. We got a launch and so even inside that and listen
I somebody wrote this and and and and that guy might be listening to this best intention
Best intentions fully in every way as I hear this. I keep telling myself. I understand what you're saying
That said
And I don't want this to become like a lesson of oh if you're not in combat you don't understand this
That's not the point at all
The actually the opposite is true is the point behind that is the recognition of all these things that you feel like you want to control
When you get in the dynamic environment in business in raising your kids and having a relationship with somebody
And in combat and all things is the recognition is that
You can't do any of these things. You can't do any of these things
So I don't want to be like dave's over here like oh because I was in war. I know all this stuff
It's the recognition of how much less you can dictate and how much more you have to rely on the people around you
Which is why I think the frustration or some of it is the humor coming out of like bro
Did you just say control like you can't control what they do?
Did you just say dictate you can't dictate to them what they do?
And and I think inside that is why I'm laughing at this
But in all seriousness the intention behind that I understand that
And I have this sense of like
You're like pulling someone from the boot camp scenario and starting to like ease them into the the real marine corps and listen boot camp at ocs
Those are authoritarian experiences
Nobody's like hey. Hey choco
What would nobody's doing nobody's asking what you want to do and it's almost like they're pulling them into
Just like a step away from that
My take on this is as you as you lead and train your people and lead and train yourself
Just behave act teach and train the way you're supposed to without the sense that they're not capable of understanding or they're not capable of of
Embracing the right type of leadership. You don't need to moderate
Moving away from authoritarianism. You should say don't be an authoritarian leader
Here's the reasons why not. Hey, do what you want. However, you want to do it. It's it's not good leadership
but if all you have is boot camp and do you want Marines to to
To be responsible or yeah, I do. I want my reins to do what I tell them to do
I understand why you're saying that but how you make that happen isn't like
Telling them what to do
So the gap that's inside there for me is the connection between where they might have come from and I'm just assuming you pulled us from boot camp
Which is not the real world
It's not how you want to lead people and somehow trying to meet like
Moderate them into the real Marine Corps. They've done. I'm guessing obviously
uh, I think jim web
James Webb's son, you know, he writes articles and he sent me an article that they've made some like significant changes in
Marine Corps infantry training and
They sounded outstanding and what it sounded like was it has shifted towards like what I when I ran training
What we did which was like really decentralized like it was going to be mayhem
It was going to be chaos and they're now hitting these Marines with those type of scenarios
So that they're even more prepared. So that's a great thing to hear and um
You know again, it's just
It's interesting how we're going to drift right it's it's when you're in environment
Where you can get away with things you'll drift towards getting away with them. Yeah, and it's important
This is almost like a really good reminder. Like you said, it's like not like somebody wrote this with bad intentions, but
um
This is what this is what we're drawn to and the and the authoritarian mind is drawn to this even more
and
The orderly mind is drawn to this even more and the highly disciplined which as you know, obviously discipline is like my favorite
Characteristic and if you have too much discipline, you're gonna fall apart in combat because this is not a disciplined environment combat
It's not a discipline. You need discipline in combat
But things aren't gonna happen the way you want them to happen
And they're not gonna happen the way you expect them to happen and the marine that's been obeying you
Because he was scared of getting written up
He's not gonna listen to you now because you're telling them to go across the street where there's uh freaking
You know machine gun fire going down and he's not going. Yeah
Or he can't hear you
Or he didn't you know his radio got shot like there's a million things that are gonna happen
Yeah, and you're setting him up to fail too. Yep. So them the less you can do
As a leader and the more you allow your team to do the better they're gonna perform
So you're not gonna have all the facts
Uh and now it says this form the habit of considering several points of view for every problem
That's a good call learn from the mistakes of others. That's a good call
Force yourself to make a decision and then check the decision to see if it's sound. Well, that's a good call
Talk to people and practice making your conversations logical and clear. That's a good call. So those are all those are all positive
Dependability a dependable leader is one who can be relied on to carry out
Any mission to the best of his or her personality cool
um
It says the steps are practiced honest thinking
avoid making excuses
We're no stronger than avoid we can actually say do not
Uh accomplish the assigned task
Regardless of the obstacles cool always be prompt to perform all tasks the best of your ability. Yeah check be careful about making promises and personal deals
But when you have made them build a reputation on keeping them. What kind of personal deals are we talking about here?
I'm not 100 sure maybe that's like on the civilian sector. They're talking about like I'll sell you this car for 900 bucks
Initiative
The trait of initiative is key to being a successful leader initiative is simply seeing what has to be done and doing it without having to be told to do it. Yes
As a marine nco, you must develop initiative not only in yourself, but in your subordinates as well. Yes
Your marines will develop trust and respect when you take prompt action and meeting new situations
You develop initiative in subordinates to develop initiative in subordinates
You should assign tasks according to the subordinates ability and experience
But once a task is assigned don't tell subordinates how to do it unless they ask for suggestions by allowing subordinates to do the job
It not only develops initiative, but frees you to do other tasks. Yes. We nailed one dude
We nailed one good job
closely related to initiative is resourcefulness and goes on about that
Another side of the another side of initiative is the ability to anticipate simply stated. This is the ability to foresee situations before they arise
This prior knowledge gives you a chance to plan for the event and have preparations ready deal with situations. Great
And then just talks about it giving you an advantage. So here's the here's the steps develop and maintain a state of mental and physical alertness look for tasks to do
For a lot tasks to be done without being told to do them practice thinking and planning ahead anticipate situations before they're great
The next one is tact
Tacked is the ability to deal with people without causing friction or giving offense
More simply stated tact is the ability to say and do the right thing at the right time. You must
Use tact not only when dealing with seniors, but with subordinates as well
To successfully use tack you must be courteous
Because courtesy given will be returned
It is important that courtesy not be misunderstood as brown nosing inexperienced
Inexperienced NCOs may feel wrongly that politeness in a military command is a sign of weakness
All orders given will be obeyed, but those given with courtesy will be obeyed willingly
Even in emergency situations, I'm gonna get I'm digging myself a hole in the Marine Corps and I'm chuckling too much. I'm sorry Marines
Uh, but quite honestly, I haven't worked with a Marine that's um in this mode
I was gonna save my life
I don't think you have any issues because the Marines that are listening to this are like
They're like they're on board
All orders will be obeyed
Good luck with that. Usually you will find that
Usually you will find that a calm and courteous though firm manner of speech gets the best results
Tacked becomes very important when criticizing a subordinate lack of tack can crush a marine spirit an initiative criticism can be
Criticism must be made in a manner that points out a weakness
In the subordinates action, but still encourages the subordinate to continue to show initiative cool
To develop leadership trade of tact you must do the following be considerate develop the habit of cooperating us in spirit as well as fact
Study the actions of senior NCOs who enjoy a reputation for being able to handle marine successfully
Check yourself for tolerance and patience if it fault correct your own habits
Apply the golden rule do unto others as you would have them do unto you
Let no marine superior or subordinate exceed you in courtesy and consideration
for the feelings of others
Cool
That's not a bad goal try and be nicer to everybody than they are to you
Echo charles you're pretty successful at that when you're pretty nice guy. Oh, I like to think so. Yes, sir
I don't think I've ever seen you be mean to know somebody
Yeah, I don't know it's been a long time. I feel like
I don't know what else to tell you good courteous marine over there
Next one is justice justice is fairness
um
Search your mental attitudes to determine prejudice
Seek to rid your mind of them learn to be absolutely impartial when imposing punishment or giving rewards
Search out the facts of each case
Study human behavior be honest with yourself recognize those subordinates worthy of commendation or reward
Next one is enthusiasm
Explain and I'm going to jump them through some stuff explain why the mission must be accomplished whenever you can do so
How about almost always?
No one believe in your work tackle all tasks with a cheerful can do attitude believe in your mission no matter what it is
Hmm
Look, you got to be careful with that one. What is your mission?
Why are we doing it if it doesn't make sense man? Ask some questions
Ask some questions
bearing
bearing is a marine's general appearance carriage
Deportment and conduct by your bearing you establish a standard for your periods of periods and subordinates
Your appearance should show confidence competence alertness and energy your clothing equipment should be neat and clean at all times
Your voice and action should be under control
Few things can steady the morale of troops like a leader who with full knowledge of the difficulties of the situation
Neither looks or acts worried when speaking to marines talking short plain sentences
Never talk down marines or allow sarcasm to enter the conversation vulgar speech frequent loss of temper
Like it says frequent loss of temper like occasionally go for it
And an irritable nature show lack of self-confidence that subordinates easily see they react to the lack of self-confidence with resentment or even in
Subordination avoid criticizing the entire group of marines for the failings of a few
Those who didn't want those who didn't do anything wrong will resent it
Your bearing should show dignity and control of both your emotions and your actions dignity shows pride and confidence in yourself
and the ability of your marines emotional control shows that you
have
Any situation well in hand to develop and improve your bearing you should do the following
Practice control of your voice facial expressions and gestures
Demonstrate calmness sincerity and understanding master your emotions so that you can control them and they do not control you
Speak simply and directly
Never reprimand subordinates and spell
Observe the study leaders who enjoy reputed
No one in here regulations
Demand the highest of standards for yourself and your subordinates avoid indiscriminate course behavior profanity and vulgarity
They didn't see full metal jacket, maybe it is amazing like I went to ocs
And those marines those marine drill instructors they never swore it. I mean, but I mean they probably swore five times or something like that
What about the basic school?
I mean to be quite honest like I
After oc I mean even partially at ocs
Like the best leaders that I worked with were were
Professional and they they were articulate and they spoke professionally if I look back and like the guys that I looked up to the most
They were professional
that said
The the use of vulgarity was I would say like commonplace
Um, but even at the basic school
Uh amongst the marine females going through the basic school. Yeah, I was in an integrated company like I think one of the first one in the
while
amongst like the marines
Was everybody was cursing all the time. What about the instructor stuff? No, that's what I'm saying like the yeah
Um, and I think what my point of that was it wasn't something that was policed. It was something that was I think demonstrated
and
Like I don't remember my platoon commander a guy who I respect I don't I have no record and it could have happened
But I don't have a recollection of him cursing and I have a recollection of some and some not but like the lieutenants like I think I
Cur I mean we curse all the time. Yeah. Yeah, but the staff did correct. That's the main thing
That's right. Yeah, the example that was being shown
It's like we weren't emulating that example the staff even though CS were pretty professional people in terms of not cursing and just
Being articulate well spoken leaders was valued. Is it hard to get a billet like as an OCS instructor?
Not OCS. No, I think tbs is a more
I don't know if demanding is the right word and this is you know, however many years now, but
No, tbs was a much harder thing than OCS back in the day to get a job there
Yeah, the
Marine drill instructors at OCS for me had like a their whole vocabulary of non swear words. We're words. Totally. Yeah
That's a dagom friggin. I that's I remember hearing all that and and that that stayed true
But amongst your peers like it's like you didn't follow that example, but yeah, yeah
What's tb tbs the basic school? Yeah, so every marine go ahead
No, I say you mean you got it
We talked about earlier every marine no matter what your job is going to be pilot infantry or everything in between
Goes through a six month course as an officer
Which gives you a little bit of exposure to basically every potential job out there everything from supply to logistics to communication to artillery
to tanks to infantry
So every marine officer has a little sense of all the things the marine corps does
so even a pilot knows what infantry men are doing and the marine corps places places a
big premium on that concept every marine is a rifleman and the investment they make as a marine and even if you know
You're destined to go be an aviator you go through the basic school like all marines do it's like general education
Yeah, kind of like that. Yeah, so you get enough of exposure to do what we talked about before which was just
Understand what might be going on
You're not going to be an expert in any of it, but you do get exposure to all of it, which is awesome
It paid huge dividends to me. We used to joke about it like
The last time I shot a rifle before I went to ramadi was at the basic school
Which is crazy. So that's like what 12 years 13 years or something basic school 94 ramadi o6
12 years. Yep, and you hadn't shot a rifle
I had not squeezed the trigger on a rifle since the day I sided in my m4. I don't know
couple months before I deployed
Dang, but I had done it. So I had just enough like, you know, the basic fundamentals to understand it
But you know, I've done everything from like 50 cows and
24 m60s of the time and mark 19s and and all that stuff that is so jacked up. It's crazy. Like like think about me
Totally dude, like I had spent like literally my entire adult life just doing that
You know how many millions of rounds I'd shot maybe a rethinking bringing Dave on all those missions
I kicked you in my mind. I was looking at you like, hey, he's
But he's a square-dweller, but he's a square-dweller. I mean rifle at heart
Yeah, I shot the pistol every year for however many years, but I didn't touch the rifle. Which way does the magazine go?
Oh, that's it was a steep learning curve for me to get back
The jowl was like a workup. How did you get ready? How many rounds did you shoot before you went on deployment?
Dude, remember man, so I got to my Angleco unit basically October of 05
And I spent the first I don't know month basically doing the tactical air, you know TACP
All that was I was just gonna be in Japan for a year
And then around Christmas time like hey, we need volunteer, you know, I got a volunteer for that
I volunteered for that job. Like hey, we need volunteers to go to Iraq. I'm like, well go to Iraq, you know, you know the whole story behind
Yeah, but it wasn't till that was in January. That was in December. So for Christmas. It was like, hey, honey
You know that was when I kind of broke the news like this. You were newlywed at that time. We had just gotten married. That's right. Hey, sorry
So we go on Christmas to come back in January. She was thinking like maybe a trip to Japan
Totally
It's like this would be the blast go to see the Kota Khan. That's right. Yeah judo players. Where you at? We we go
Christmas vacation the holidays whatever and in January they're like, hey all the iraq marines are going to camp lejeune
So I got to camp lejeune
January, I don't call it like the 10th or whatever it was and I deployed February
20th, so I had five weeks
Five weeks. Do you have any?
Not a lot
Not a lot a little
I like it was like bz ode and then I did a couple of courses, but you know to keep in mind too like
I use my rifle obviously. Yeah, but my primary weapon there was the radio and you know, clearly I was I was much more inclined to do that
um, but dude, I don't
I I I wasn't shooting rounds of that rifle at all hardly ever did you do immediate action drills?
Like with your team
yeah, like
I did very little of that now. I had a couple of pretty squared away staff and co's you must have been so stoked rolling out with us
You must have been like hell. Yeah
Like these guys have got I was mostly I was more and I you know, I look back and talk to life about it. I was mostly stoked
That you were cool with me coming with you like
That even to this day look back like the fact that they had enough confidence in me and my guys
So we could be with you guys was pretty awesome for me
Now your guys these are these are like infantry marines that get assigned to anglico. How does that work? Well?
it's it's
My guys were almost 100 artillery
Really? Yeah, just most anglico is artillery
They're not all there. There's because they serve as forward observers at some point
There's exactly right that experience with calling an air. Uh, I'm sorry calling for fire artillery call for fire
Um, and forward observers things like that
It's not some rule that it has to be artillery, but the thing that was crazy though is my team my so I had a 13 man team
My five of us that I stayed because we ended up doing missions as a small unit leader. I had three teams
I was one of those three teams
every one of my guys was
artillery
And it never deployed
So it's kind of crazy
That's wild. I'm glad you didn't know this back then
I didn't either
Damn you guys were pros though like we did all right man. Yeah, we did all right. That's freaking legit. It was pretty cool
Uh to be with you guys
Yeah, I mean that's wild except like thinking like randomly you and I would be just like out in a building somewhere in ramadi
And you're like telling him like hey, what do you got you're like telling me what's going on? I'm just
thinking you're a rifleman
Oh
That's pretty awesome. Uh next thing endurance
Endurance like courage has two distinct parts physical endurance means being able to function effectively when tired or in pain
Mental endurance is the ability to think straight when fatigue distressed or in pain
Demonstrated endurance brings
Respect from subordinates lack of endurance fails not only to set a proper example for subordinates to follow
But can also be mistaken for a lack of courage
You can increase both mental and physical endurance by doing the following
Avoiding excesses that lower both physical and mental stamina
keeping physically fit
By exercise and proper diet check learning to stand discomfort by undertaking hard physical tasks check
Forcing yourself to study when you are tired and your mind is sluggish check
Finishing every job regardless of obstacles. So there you go. Good to go. We support
On set next one is unselfishness
The unselfish leader is one who gives credit where credit is due
Unselfishness means not taking advantage of a situation for personal gain at the expense of others
No subordinate can respect an nco who takes credit for jobs well done and blames other when performance is poor
check
An unselfish marine nco will ensure subordinates needs come before personal needs check
To develop your trade of unselfishness you should do the following see that subordinates have the best
That can be obtained for them under the circumstances try to understand the problems
military or personal of subordinates, um,
David Belavia he told he told that story about um, his like
Battalion sergeant major and they're like out in the street and his battalion sergeant major has an old
m16 with iron sights on it
And everyone else has got like the high speed stuff
And he like that's what David Belavia remembered is that his command sergeant major who was killed in combat
What he remembered about him is like he wouldn't take the good weapon
you know
that's
That like I remember thinking about that after he was on the podcast and I was like
That's what he remembered of all the things you remember you remember a bunch of other things
But like think of how much that stands out. He like this guy
He wouldn't take the good weapons from the troops even though he's the senior enlisted man in a freaking battalion
It might even have been a regimental sergeant major
but um, just awesome
Put the comfort pleasures and recreation of your subordinates before your own
In the field your marines eat before you do give credit to subordinates for jobs well done check
Loyalty
Loyalty is the quality of faithfulness to your country marine corps seniors and subordinates
Demonstrated loyalty wins respects and confidence
Loyalty means supporting the views and methods the unit employs, but doesn't mean becoming a yes man. Thank you. So there you go
We get a little bit of you know
Some of vietnam dude, you got a desert storm guy. Yeah, right? Yeah, yeah
Yeah, yeah
To develop loyalty you should do the following be quick to defend subordinates from abuse. Thank you
Never give the slightest hint of disagreement with orders from seniors when giving instruction to subordinates
Now I made a little note here
Because there was a I don't know if you remember this the very first trait that got covered was integrity
and it says
Be accurate truthful in all statements
Don't tell your superiors only what you think they want to hear tell it as it is but tactfully
Practice absolute honesty at all times not only with yourself, but with others never shade the truth
So now just fyi
We're saying never give the slightest hint of disagreement with orders from seniors when giving instructions to subordinates
So it's like we understand the caveat that we're throwing on there. Here's the problem. This is not a good plan
It's not
First of all because the team will see through it
Because you're telling them to do something that doesn't make sense
You know it doesn't make sense and if you know it doesn't make sense they're all gonna know it doesn't make sense
Okay, maybe they all know but you got a platoon of 40 guys
12 of them know nine of them know nine of them are looking at you like you're a jackass and we don't believe you
So how do we make this happen?
It goes back to earlier when we're when we're talking and we develop a relationship with our boss so that we can say
Hey boss, can you explain to me why we're doing this and if you have a good relationship with them and something doesn't make sense
Either they can explain it to you so it does make sense or you can explain the ramifications that are going to occur
And why this is a bad idea and if you still get the shut up and do what I told you you go down to the troops
You don't lie to them you go down troops and say hey fellas. Look. I pushed back against the boss. Here's what we're doing
Here's why we're doing it. We're gonna do the best of our ability and here's how we're gonna mitigate whatever problems might occur
That's what you do
I'm even thinking you know hack worth going on those patrols
Like there's even in that the whole the whole spectrum that's inside there of like all right
Jocko is the worst boss in the world. He's gonna order my guys to do something to get him killed
I can I can fall on my sword which is like the classic
It's like the um
What's the word I'm like the most romantic like oh that look Dave's gonna fall on his sword
I keep reminding people you know what happens when you fall on your sword you you fall on your sword
You die you die that's not good and then Dave gets replaced with
Echoes like whatever you say boss and in that case like all right. We're gonna go on that patrol
These are dumb
So what I'm gonna go outside the wire. I'm gonna set up this bim come on. Hey, we got no contact today
So even you've been talking even the spectrum inside there
But the thing of it is that you I think the key takeaway from that because the truth of the matter is most of the time
You're not getting these orders gonna get your people killed. No that's such a rare like an extreme example
Most of the time it's just like dumb
Okay, nobody's gonna die. It's not gonna ruin the company, but it's dumb inside there
If I come back and go hey, jog. Hey guys, this is the best idea ever boss is awesome and we're gonna go do this
I'm gonna lose so much leadership capital leader which credibility, but I can't say hey listen
I know this can be frustrating sometimes. I know sometimes it makes sense
Here's what we're gonna do. Here's why let me explain it
And if it's not gonna get anybody killed for any risk
They'll still do it, but the reason they're doing it is not undying obedience to your leadership. It's actually that you are
Being honest with them. You have integrity got integrity exactly
And so even that that deck that definitions how they're even understanding that there's a balance even inside that concept
I remember uh
Getting told there's two two two good examples of this one of them is from um
Bandit brothers when they send the recon across the river someone gets killed
They come back the next night the colonel's like hey send someone send another recon tonight
And he's like hey, I don't think that's a good idea. He's like shut up and do it
He says okay, and they go sit in the basement of the towing and drink wine
There was I heard this story when I was a new guy that you know in vietnam
These guys got told hey, you're gonna go out and do a patrol in this area and they or set up an ambush in this area
And they're like hey, that's a bad area. There's not gonna be anything and they're like no shut up and do it
And he goes okay cool. Yep. Whatever the platoon commander says cool got it
They went patrolled, you know 200 yards outside the gate
Sat in the bushes for five hours patrol back in hey no no contact didn't say anything
Yeah, I just said that associated with hackworth, but that I'm misplacing that it's the story
It's that story that you told of like okay, I don't know why I connected to hackworth
But it was that those patrols of like boss says to do this. I'm gonna go do this, but I'm actually not really doing it
Yeah, that's that's exactly what it was it came from from the story you told right and that isn't like look that is
Now we're now we're starting to develop some issues, right? Yep. Now we got some issues
We got some issues because now we're
We're giving false information up the chain of command
So now we're in just as bad of a spot as good doing down. So that is not the right answer totally
The right answer is to develop that relationship
But what you're talking about you said use the term in extremist people gonna get killed
So if we talk in an extremist people gonna get killed
I'm not gonna get my guys killed if it doesn't make sense. Yeah, so but that like you said this is not like
Oh another day in the military got ordered to do something that's gonna get about that doesn't I got asked this the other day
I just guy pulled me aside after an event and he's like, you know, what are you doing?
You get ordered to do something that is you know immoral and I was like, oh, don't do it
He was oh, you just don't do it. I was like, no, you can't do things that are immoral unethical or illegal
You can't do them as a matter of fact. I said it's your duty not to do them
A general order of the century says you must obey all lawful orders
It's if there's things that are unlawful you don't do them. In fact, you have to not do them
And he was kind of looking at me surprised. He goes, well, how often did that happen? I go it never happened exactly
Never actually zero times in 20 years and that's that's really the point
Center to the point I was trying to make is we create this like
We create some story that I'm being told by this awful evil boss is trying to get all my people killed
And how do I handle that like?
That never happened to me. Yeah, has it happened in history? Yeah, I guess it does and then inside that
But from your perspective or from the point you're making from a leadership standpoint
If if I've done all these other things right and I got a good relationship with my boss, jaco
Hey, what are you? What are the chances again? Hey, Dave? I got this unethical thing. I want you to go
It's not gonna happen. I gotta I gotta plan. I want you to go actually it's a bunch of people gonna get wounded to kill
Go ahead and execute it. Totally. So those those scenarios and I have no reason why right?
They don't and they don't just sit by themselves. That doesn't just happen
Uh, so we want to avoid the idea that like
Or what do you do in this case? Well, that never happened to me, but that didn't happen
I never once had a relationship with my boss by which he said hey come here
Half your people are gonna die. It serves no purpose, but I want you to go
Come on man. Like we're not doing that. Hey, Dave, you know what? This is gonna cost the company a bunch of money
It's gonna give us a bad reputation and we're probably gonna get some people to quit
Yeah, I want you to go and execute this right and you're like cool. Got it
Stuff doesn't happen. Um, but that's also why truth
That's the leading trait here was integrity up and down the chain of commands. So we like that. Yes, um
Practice doing every task the best your ability wholeheartedly support your commander's decisions
How do you best support your commander's decisions by guiding your commander and pushing back against your commander when something doesn't make sense
And getting on board with the little things that aren't gonna matter that much totally you tell me to do something
I'm gonna do it man. I'm gonna do it. I'm gonna get it done. I'm gonna kick ass at it
If you tell me to do something that's totally stupid, I'm not gonna let you make that mistake
That's how I'm gonna wholeheartedly support you by being smart and having good relationship with my boss
Never discuss the personal problems of subordinates with others cool
Stand for your country the Marine Corps your unit and your fellow Marines when they are unjustly accused check
Never criticize seniors in the presence of subordinates
Check with a caveat
You know, like you said if you're doing something if you're being told to do something that doesn't make sense
But it's not worth quote falling on your sword over. It's like, hey, listen. Here's why we're doing this
I know it's not maybe the best way to get it done
But in order to develop a better relationship with the boss and gain more caught with him
We're gonna go ahead and execute this. We're gonna wear our freaking dress uniform tonight and everyone's like, you gotta be kidding me
Yep, I wish I was kidding you, but I'm not yeah, we're gonna and you know what we're all gonna look so sharp that
The boss is gonna know that we're the platoon that can get that's such a great example
Because those are the it's like boss wants the paperwork done 12 hours ahead of the due date
You know like oh come on like guys listen
That's the those are the scenarios where your uniform you don't want to wear getting paperwork done
Those are the far more realistic scenarios you had to come down and go. Hey guys
I know it's a little bit frustrating
But as opposed to boss is sending us on the suicide mission with no benefit. That's not that's not the scenario
That's more likely. It's the one you used to describe like
Guys, I know you don't want to do this. I know sometimes this comes out. It could be kind of frustrating
But we're gonna do this and here's why and and if you got a good relationship to your people most of the time I'm gonna go
Okay, fine. No worries, Dave. We got your back and they're gonna just get it done. It's not that big of a deal
I just remembered at stoner's funeral in hawaii. There was some guy that was there
I want to say was in hawaii who was stationed on the ship with stoner
And the stoner was in charge of like I don't even know he's in charge of um like some department on the ship and
they pulled into port and
Stoner like gave the liberty brief. He's like, hey you guys, you know like liberty go go
Don't get in trouble and they were all like, damn we don't have any duties or whatever
And as they got this guy he said they were leaving the ship and they looked like
Wherever on the ship and stoner was there like doing the duty that they all had to do like they had to clean something to do
Someone and he was up there just like doing it by himself and I was like, I can dig the dude was so freaking
And like pumped, you know, um, that's taking care of your people
Uh, never criticize. Oh, yeah, never criticize your seniors and friends and support us. Yeah, check
Do not discuss command problems outside the unit check be loyal to your seniors and subordinates. Check
Support the lawful policies of senior officers. Whether you personally agree with them or not
Loyalty is a two-way street
What I would ask you to do
Is not to support the lawful policies of senior officers whether you personally agree what I would ask you to do is understand them I
Would ask you to understand why your boss wants you to wear a uniform on a Tuesday night
I would want you to understand why your boss wants you to
Turn the weapons it at a certain time before good ball, you know like understand and give them the benefit of that out
That's that's that's a little bonus too because you could be super critical about everything and nothing makes it if you want to be
Hypercritical literally nothing makes sense in the military. It's all freaking. It's all just dumb
So if you want to go level 12
Hypercritical and it's the same thing in any company you go
We I could go to some company right now and start talking to the subordinate
Teams start talking to the frontline personnel and we could get a list of stupid things that that company's doing and we could never stop
writing them down
So instead of looking for what's stupid try and understand why these things are happening
And this is the last one judgment
judgment is the ability
To logically weigh facts and possible solutions on
Which to base sound decisions and includes common sense when faced with a new problem or information you don't understand
Seek advice before you attempt a solution. It isn't degrading to ask questions
Note to self
In leadership strategy and tactics one of the things that a leader supposed to do is to
Ask questions
It is embarrassing to arrive at a poor solution because of the lack of judgment to seek help
To develop the trade of judgment. You should do the following practice making estimates of the situation
That's something you can do as a leader get your get your team members
Someone that you're trying to coach and mentor be like, hey echo. What do you think we should do right here?
What do you think's going on and talk have them talk you through it and you're gonna get better
You're gonna come up with a better solution anyways, but it finds a solution
But if I have echo try and come up with a solution to estimate the solution or estimate the situation come over the solution
Come up with a plan. I'm detached and I'll all of a sudden I get to see a different perspective that I didn't see before
So there's a little
A little bonus. There's a bonus to that
Anticipate situations which required decisions to be prepared when the need arises cool
Avoid making rash decisions. I like how they use the word avoid
I would go strong like don't make rash decisions
And I wouldn't use the you know, you don't want to say never but
You need to go stronger than avoid
like
As often as possible avoid making rash decisions, right
Maybe even a little stronger than that. We'd have to break out the thesaurus and get busy to figure out where we're going
And the last one here approach problems with a common sense attitude, which may sound common sense
But sometimes it's not
um
There you go
Some more leadership. What do you got echo Charles?
You kind of rewind into that maybe to few one few lines ago when you know, let them come up with a plan or whatever
Just to give give them the the opportunity to exercise their capability. Whatever. Are you going in there with
Knowing where you're not going to use their plan and they know that or are you like maybe you come up with a good plan
If you come up with a plan that's like
Viable, yeah, sounds good to me, right? Yeah
If you come up if you come up with an idiot plan, we're not going to use it
But what are the chances of you coming up with an idiot plan?
If I said to you right now, you have no military experience if I was like, hey echo, we've got to attack this building
Yeah, you'd probably come up with a plan that was almost usable
Right, you'd be like, well, we should put some guys over here and maybe I give you a five minute class
Then you if I give you a five minute class
You could probably come up with a plan that we would execute
Yeah, and I'd be like cool sounds close enough. Okay, so so it's like the primary primary
Purpose for you doing that is to give them exercise, but completely open completely for for for that to be the jam
And as you know, this is like how I roll anyways
I mean this is like what I do all the time with everything. That's kind of why I was asking
Yeah, I'm like, are you like in your mind saying
But in case he does we'll go with it kind of a thing or because there's a difference between that and then really leaning on someone
For the plan like, you know, if it's clear that Dave knows more than
You or me or whatever about something you're like, hey, we better go to Dave for this plan
You know, that's like leaning on him for it
But sometimes it's like unnecessary, but the primary isn't you want to give them an exercise?
So down the road or whatever they're going to be really good, but that's the primary purpose
You seem saying I don't even know if it's the primary purpose because when if Dave's working for me and he's a platoon commander
He's a project manager for me
And I go, hey Dave, how do you want to execute this?
Yes, he gets education
Yes, he gets to learn
But yes, he's probably gonna come up with a decent plan and as long as he comes up with a decent plan
We're probably gonna execute that thing. Maybe we got to make a couple adjustments, but that's kind of what we're doing
So it's a it's not even like hey if you're trying to change train someone right
If I'm working with someone I'm gonna
Try and let them come up with the plan
It's gonna make me
Better because when Dave comes up with a plan I
Look, I have a plan in my head right? I've got something even if I look at a target for three seconds
Or I look at a project for three seconds. I go. Yeah, I know what I do here as soon as I ask Dave
I get a whole totally different perspective
And so and and by the way
Dave only sees what Dave sees
So now when I say throw something out there
He's like oh and it's like
Like building my leadership capital because I'm listening to him, but I also have good ideas myself
It's just a win win win win
across the board
So
Fundamentals of marine leadership Dave Burke there you go you handed me this manual
We got some good. We got some bad. We got some ugly. We only covered a little bit of it
I don't know if we're gonna dig back into this thing, but uh the important thing is to
Always dig see what you can find
What do you got anything else? No, I think we said it. I mean inside there like I said
I in every case I was thinking myself. I understand what you're saying, but so that's all good to go
I actually I'm actually interested and see if there's like a new like an updated version
You know the the 2017 version of this that has you know, 17 years or 16 years of combat experience inside there
Um, for me, it's kind of cool though the 14 leadership traits those those
You know, we called it JJ did type uncle. That's the acronym justice judgment decisiveness initiative
You know all those letters that go on you know that you talked about
That has stood this test of time and as you as you read what they meant. I'm like, that's right. That's right. That's right
It also I think gets to the explaining this stuff is harder than it seems and we talk about leadership all the time we teach
Some of the most rudimentary leadership behaviors in the world cover and move
Communication and yet we know how hard it is to do them and so inside this you get this sense of even
even for these folks
Understanding it and explaining it and being able to do it or very different things. The stuff is hard
Explaining it is hard
learning it and understanding it is so much harder than it is to just say it and
it was it's actually
cool to hear as as you're talking through that my leadership radar my leadership here like wrong wrong wrong wrong wrong
and to be able to pull out even some of the new ones inside there even like you said
Don't say avoid being a tyrannical leader. Don't be a tyrannical leader
and
this was
Had some fun with that, but this was cool to see that
I had this sense of this of someone struggling to articulate a concept they understood
but didn't know how to teach it and didn't have the the um
The experience reservoir to go. Okay this concept now I can put meaning around this content concept based on my experience
I would say that
A little yes to that but also I would say that
That
Where I thought you were going with that is look you can read the word decisiveness
And you can understand you can understand what that means and I can understand what that means
But someone else apparently this guy
Thinks that decisiveness means you need to understand all the facts
So even these things that we understand a certain way
They're interpretation of what decisiveness means is different and quite frankly in some of these cases not correct
So they were able to take correct concepts
And teach them in a way that are incorrect
I don't think it had anything to do with not being able to
Express it or articulate it. I think they actually didn't understand the thing
Yeah, what that actually what that actually means. I mean when you're talking about um
Some of those decentralized command that we're running kind of like flipping through to see some of those examples where I like wrote like no
Like like what we just said never give the slightest hint of disagreement with orders
when giving instructions to support it so
We're we're we're not telling the truth to our troops
loyalty
I would focus on hey if you're loyal to your boss, you don't let them tell you to do something that may doesn't make any sense
That's not being loyal totally the opposite. Yeah, yeah
The last thing I want for loyalty from Dave Burke is I'm like hey Dave charge that machine gun nest
With your squad elevated position
Go the last thing I want from you to see you yes, sir in charge
I want you to be loyal to you to your troops and loyal to me by saying hey boss. This is dumb
We need to lay down cover fire and we'll maneuver around the outside. So
So there's some there's some swings and some misses which is very interesting. I was thinking this I started thinking about this
I'm like
Is was this thing like the navy achievement medal of some like some like lieutenant colonel or major that was like
oh
We wrote the marine corps fundamental like and he just kind of that was his project. He got after it, you know
Yeah, I wish the same with all the ones I wish you could have just been in the room
Because there's shades there's little peaks of that guy nailed it whoever that guy was like you went through that one
You're like nailed it. Yeah, you almost have the sense like that's someone who understands it and got his
Fragments of this thing in this pub. Yep, where's the other guy who doesn't understand it got his fragments in and when you put them
So I'm like yep nope
You know it's what you were talking about being on paper versus being on target, right?
And this this this has happened to us at echelon front where we get a leader we go and work with the leadership team
and they take a principle
And we check in with them, you know three weeks later
We'll go back there and you can see this one person. They're on paper, but man, they're not hitting the mark
and you know for them
Extreme ownership meant I'm going to dictate everything that's happening here
Or decentralized command meant I can go to the Bahamas for the next two weeks on vacation because I'm gonna let my team so
They take it and interpret it the wrong way. Yeah, so this stuff
There's there's probably you just like just like shooting like there's a chance
You know I would take Dave and get you dialed in at 300 yards on your rifle
You're gonna do pretty good if I take a group of a hundred people and do that
How many have some people that cannot that aren't gonna be hitting paper? Yep
And so that's what we have to watch out for and that's you know, what's interesting about working at echelon front like
Because we do this all the time
Like we we we know and we also have the ability to go up. Yep. This person's gonna be a little bit off target
Hey, two clicks to the right one click down. We're gonna get you dialed in bullseye on this stuff
And even that can be hard. There's some people there. They're they're they're praying spray. Some people have the vision of
You know, finally jocco is gonna come to my company get everyone in line. It's like everyone. Yeah
It's like no, it's not quite gonna go like that
So when I read all these things
Keeping an open mind about what you're reading what you're interpreting about what you're understanding
Thinking that you know, even when someone presents me tomorrow afternoon. I'm working with a company and someone says
Hey, jocco, I don't think cover and move works. I don't think to myself. Hey, shut up. You don't know what you're talking about
I know I know I go talk to me about why not
What is the situation?
so keeping an open mind and
Not thinking that you know everything
is is extremely important
and even
Dictating right that's what I think one thing that sat a little bit wrong about this
This this book for both of us is there is a lot of dictating the way things are with
With no outs with no deviations and that's always problematic. It's always problematic to paint yourself into a corner
It's always problematic to carve things into stone. Yeah
There should be some things carved in stone very few the things that you carve in stone
They should be very very few and even when you carve them into stone you should be able to move that rock around a little bit
Yeah, I think that's an awesome metaphor and then the other word that that certainly triggered a response of me is the concept of control
How this is about controlling like and we both that word are like wow that that
But even conceptually like if you are if you in your mind think this this is a tool or technique to control people
Your interpretation is going to be wrong because even the outcome that you're trying to achieve or even what leadership really is
You've got and you talk about different perspectives if the perspective is this is a tool to control other people
You've got this wrong. Yeah, and that was the other word that really hit me like man
That's that is not what we're trying to achieve here if you're like throwing out
Hey, if you got to be authoritarian deal, there's time to play. Hey, and you know what is there? Yeah, sure
There's a time in a place
There's a time that there's an emergency going on people don't know what's happening and you got to get up and be like
Hey, everyone be quiet. We're moving over to this thing that happens
but
It shouldn't be happening a lot. So
There you go leadership
Lessons learned
Thank you marine corps. You know marine corps
You're my people. So I know you're with me now
We just had to we had to dispel some stuff in this one
Uh, appreciate it. What else what else we got echo people getting we're getting smarter. We are we're keeping an open mind
We are we are trying to yes, so we're on the path. We're avoid keeping in a clothesline
I'll tell you that definitely a good thing doing our best to avoid that. Uh, yes, so, you know, we're on this improvement path
growth path
And we need supplementation sometimes the jocobo supplements is we're gonna talk about first
So additional protein in the form of a dessert short description. Yeah, same thing. It's called milk. You did it
Yeah, it's its own thing. Yeah, it is
Um, also energy drinks, but they're not regular energy drinks. They're good energy drinks boom called go
That's gonna help us on our mental and physical path as well. Yeah creatine speaking of physical bringing it back
Studied proven for improved performance results gains all that
Oh, yeah
That's true. Actually, you know, I there. I only had a small stint of creatine. Oh really? Yeah
Yeah, it was I guess not so coincidentally the strongest I've ever been though in the weight room. See yeah
Well, you go scientifically proven and bro scientifically proven. Yeah, I just never was that into supplements
Yeah, and then yeah, maybe I should have been I don't know, but I got some creatine now though got called up now
So we're back in the game. Yeah
Um, also what else we got joint health keep your joints
So you pretty much everything for every every supplement for pretty much any part of our path. We got you we got you
Not to mention some new stuff coming out. I'm not gonna talk about that
I'm not gonna pop the hype bubble on the new thing. Yeah, but there's some new keep the hype bubble some new
There you go jockelfield.com get it at wow, wow vitamin shop
um, myer
Murphy's h e b
Military commissaries it's in there like hanaford in there. So we were a bunch of different places circle k down in florida
jockelfield.com if you need to order it
order it
Get stronger get smarter. Oh, yeah get healthier get better
Yeah, those monk rtds are like yeah, and you don't really understand like how good they are until you really have them
Because they're only good on paper. Yeah, it's funny as we're using the expression on paper
because you know on paper usually means like um
It makes sense if you do the equation on paper, but in real life on paper
Yeah, real life or in the field or whatever is different or whatever. So that's what I mean by this one, but
So on paper, you're like, okay. Yeah, cool rtd. You don't got to mix it up or whatever
But that element of it is a big deal when you really have them
This bro. I'm just sucking them down. Yeah, it's a little too easy. Yeah, like you're like drinking like four of them
Yeah in a day 120 sometimes
Yeah, there you go
Uh, I was gonna say 120 grams of you know
Oh, yeah, protein. Yeah 30 grams each. Yeah, uh drfield.com originusa.com get your geese
Get your american made jeans
Jeans are american
100% jeans are american and you might think you're buying some iconic american jeans that got made by a slave laborer
In a foreign country in a in a
unhealthy environment in a dangerous environment
So don't do that and get yourself an american made as stuff
originusa.com jeans, geese, boots
Support america support yourself
There you go. Are you would you guys ever do bell bottoms? Like I throw back to the 70s
jeans
I don't think so. Did you wear bell bottoms? No, I'm a man
I
Whatever brother this actually know when I wore bell bottoms in the navy in the navy
Well, when I went to boot camp you had to wear these things called dungarees. They don't wear them anymore and they were
They were bell bottoms
They were
But it was so lame. It was the lamest uniform ever
Okay, so you weren't down with them. We call them dunger jams because they call them dungarees in the navy
We call them dunger jams and buds and you were so happy to get out of those things, but you remember higgs
Yeah, Jeff Higgs. So he got dropped from training
And they took away his buds uniform
And they put him back in his dunger jams and he was he wouldn't they want they dropped him and he was not leaving
And he would just show up to pt
Like the class would come out and he'd go with them and the instructors were like, dude
You can't be out here and he would just like ignore them and then they would like escort him out of there
And then the then they'd be like dude, you'd like you can't be here like you wait
And he had his dunger jams on. Yep. That's what you're saying. Just like dude. I'm staying with the class whatever fools
And they they dropped him and and then finally like he just stuck with it
He just was not quitting and then finally they're like, all right, dude. This guy's a badass. We need to keep them
You know
Yeah, they would like
They would get him away from the class and then they'd send him to you know, lock him in a room somewhere and he'd like break out and then he'd get back
He was just freaking not quitting
With the dunger jams. Yep. All right, so no bell, but okay, I understand
That may be the first time I think I've ever like try to answer a question for jocos
I'll look more like shaking my head. No, I usually just sit here and listen
But he said bell bottoms on look at you. I'm like, I'm shaking my head. No before you say no
I don't think I've ever done that before but that one just like I'm like, no
That's not happening put this way. I was not surprised with your answer
But sometimes you just never know. I'm seeing hey, honestly the the enlisted navy uniform
Dressed uniform. Those are bell bottoms too. I think they are right when those be classified. I mean, yeah
and I know what you're talking about and and
That's not what he's like the cracker jack cracker jack uniform. You know what that is
Like the dress blues for for a navy enlisted guy below the let rank of e
Six e six and below like you you look like a cracker jack box, you know, you look like a like a stereotypical sailor
Right. Yeah with the with the Dixie cup hat. They call it. Okay. Yeah. Is that the white?
Yeah
The flared out pants. Yeah the flare up kind of bell bottom is yeah bell bottom me for sure
Yeah, no, I was thinking like more disco days. So here's the thing. So jockey use born early 70s, right?
So when you're going to just roll deep maybe because look think about it's like four
I don't know after nine. I don't know 79. Right?
Oh, maybe maybe we have to inspect like old pictures and see if I ever had any role to
It's part of my point because right now if I'm like, hey, jockel like hairstyles and all this
Her styles hair is only to look good. So whatever I'm here to win. What was the speech you gave?
Whatever. Yeah, well, let's bring up some old photos of that
Go on
Wow, when they say suave right, you know when someone looks suave
You seem saying that was jockel's look in some of those pictures. You see him saying all I hate. Hey, the point is
I was not surprised with this answer, but you just never know. Okay. You seem to see
So no bell bottoms in the in the pipe hunt gear though
Like let's we talk about cool stuff. All right origin usa.com. Jocko store.com. Yep jockelstore.com
If you want to represent we don't have bell bottoms there. No, no, no, no, no, no, no
No
Negative shirts hats hoodies for sure. Yeah, lightweight hoodies even for us. You are representing in tonight. I'm impressed. Perfect
See, I know you're from new england or whatever and you're like, no, either you hoodie, you know hoodie
Which I understand but there's nuance to to weather and requirements
lightweight hoodies from jockelstore.com discipline equals freedom represent
That's what you're working on. You get it. It's true. Also short locker subscription
Cool designs on now and new design every month. Boom. Boom. Yeah, people have been pretty pretty happy about that
I want some good feedback, but yeah, check it out. Any bell bottoms coming on? No bell bottoms. No idea
I'm gonna be honest. I never was really into the bell bottoms
Look, you know how people go they go retro and they kind of do that. That's their jam
Never was I never could understand it. Here's the thing the closest thing I got was boot cut. You know boot cut means it goes around boots
Yeah, yes
It's wide enough to go around the boot. Yeah. Yeah, okay
One of my friends was like a rocker like a rock and roll dude
Hell, yeah, Pete his name is Pete English pizza and I saw a picture of him. Do you know English peter? Yeah, you've been around English peter
But uh, oh, yeah, he did sound when he did that recording. Yes, sir, but he
Like I saw a picture of him in like 19 probably
Whatever 86 and he he was like full-on rock and roll and he had he had bell bottoms
So like he was ready to like he looked like a rock star. I just straight up. You know what I mean
So there you go
English pizza night. But yeah, uh, but yeah jockelstore.com. Uh, check it out. If you like something. Yeah, get some subscribe to the podcast
Subscribe to jockel underground
Subscribe to the youtube channel. Get your flip side
Canvas.com get your psychological warfare get it. Well, I've written a bunch of books
Got a bunch of books. Check out those books jockelpublishing.com
Warrior kid calm get your kids go to amazon and get these books. So got a bunch of books. Check them out
Eshalon front leadership consultancy if you want to talk about these leadership things that we talked about today
And you want to get the correct?
interpretation of these things
We will come work with your company. We'll do it virtually. We'll do it live whatever it takes to get the job done eshalonfront.com
also, we have
Ownership.com which is an online training. So we don't have to send you a book
A correspondence book you can come online. You can do live events with us. We do lot. We're on their live every week
Answering questions. There's courses to take. It's just awesome. We just redid the entire website have a brand new platform
It's outstanding
So extreme ownership.com
Anything else on that, Dave?
It's awesome. I love how you said like the correct interpretation. That's where you find it. If you want the correct interpretation of leadership
That's what you want. There it is. That's where you get it. Yep
And if you want to help service members active and retired their families gold star families check out marquise mom
Momaly she's got a charity organization if you want to help out or you want to donate go to americas mighty warriors org
And also don't forget about mica think and heroes and horses org if you want to connect with us on the interwebs on twitter
on
Facebook yep instagram
Mm-hmm, then you can go to david r. Burke or echo charles or
Jocko willing just watch out for the algorithm because it'll grab you
Um and thanks to all of our military leaders at every level from e1 to o10
In leadership positions around the globe. Thank you for keeping us safe and leading from the front and the same goes for all
The police and law enforcement firefighters paramedics emt's dispatchers correctional officers border patrol secret service and all first responders
Thank you for keeping us safe with your leadership here on the home front
And everyone else out there one of the
traits of a leader spelled out in this marine corps manual was courage
And it talked about physical courage and it talked about moral courage
And it talked about the mental control of fear and the book gave some recommendations
on how to be courageous
But the first recommendation that it gave
Was place duty over your personal feelings or desires
Place duty over your own personal feelings or desires
And that's it and I think we can bring that down to a personal daily level
Duty means do what you're supposed to do. That's how we build courage
By ignoring how you feel
And ignoring what you desire and by doing what you are supposed to do
Which means we need
to get out there
and get after it
And until next time this is dave and echo and jaco
Out